A Web Developers Guide to Hybrid Search (#1882)
weaviate/weaviate-io: blog/2024-03-28-hybrid-search-typescript/index.mdx

---
title: A Web Developers Guide to Hybrid Search
slug: hybrid-search-for-web-developers
authors: [daniel, ajit]
date: 2024-03-28
tags: ['concepts','how-to','search', 'javascript']
image: ./img/hero.png
description: "Hybrid Search for curious Web Developers with the new Weaviate Typescript client and Next.js"
---

![A Web Developers Guide to Hybrid Search Cover](./img/hero.png)

:::info 

This tutorial is built with Next.js and Weaviate. It uses a beta version of the v3 Typescript Client. Find out more about the new client here - [Experimental clients](/developers/weaviate/client-libraries/typescript/typescript-v3.md).

:::

> When the question of search arises, two techniques tend to take up a lot of the conversations. You would most likely ask if you need Keyword Search or Vector Search. Sometimes, the answer is both, which luckily for us happens to be Hybrid Search; the best of both worlds! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the question of search arises, there are two popular techniques that take up most of the conversation: vector search and keyword search. But which should you use? Sometimes, the answer is both, which luckily for us happens to be hybrid search - the best of both worlds! 
```

In this article, we’ll get into the technology that powers Hybrid Search, learn how to use it Weaviate, and build a Next.js Application powered by Hybrid Search in Weaviate. 

> ## Getting into Hybrid Search? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How does Hybrid Search work?
```

> To understand Hybrid Search, we need to understand the two technologies that power it. Vector Search and Keyword Search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To understand Hybrid Search, we first need to understand the two technologies that power it - vector search and keyword search.
```

### Vector Search

Vector search, also known as Semantic Search, uses machine learning to grasp text context, not just keywords. It converts text to numerical vectors, finding matches based on conceptual similarity for accurate, relevant search results.

![Semantic Search Vector Space](./img/semantic-search.png)

### Keyword Search

> Keyword search finds objects with an exact match between the terms in the query and the documents. Weaviate uses the BM25/F function to calculate the relevancy of a document to a query, which uses both the term frequency and inverse document frequency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keyword search finds objects with an exact match between the terms in the query and the documents. Weaviate uses the BM25/F function to calculate the relevancy of a document to a query, which uses both the term frequency, how often a word appears in a document, and inverse document frequency, how many documents that word occurs in.
```

![Keyword Search Illustrated](./img/keyword-search.png)

### The Best of Both Worlds

> Hybrid search in Weaviate combines keyword (BM25) and vector search to leverage both exact term matching and semantic context. With either rankedFusion or relativeScoreFusion algorithms, we merge query results. Merging results in this way helps us have a better balance between precision querying in keyword search and the semantic understanding of Vector Search. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hybrid search in Weaviate combines keyword (BM25) and vector search to leverage both exact term matching and semantic context. With either the `rankedFusion` or `relativeScoreFusion` fusion algorithms, we merge the results from both keyword search and the vector search.
```

Reviewer: Explanation: You need the fusion algorithm because the results cannot be just combined, the scores returned by both are incompatible.

A code snippet of Hybrid Search in Javascript will look something like this. 

```typescript
const myCollection = client.collections.get('JeopardyQuestion');

const result = await myCollection.query.hybrid('food',{
 limit: 2,
 returnProperties: ['question', 'answer'],
})

console.log(JSON.stringify(result.objects, null, 2));
```

## Optimizing your Hybrid Search

With Weaviates Hybrid Search, we have two ways to adjust the Hybrid Search algorithm. We can adjust the weights by tweaking our search alpha or changing our ranking algorithm.

### Changing alpha

> Think of alpha as a measure of how much your hybrid search should lean towards either Vector Search or keyword search where an alpha of 1 is a pure vector search, and an alpha of 0 is a pure keyword search. It is 0.75 by default. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Think of alpha as a measure of how much your hybrid search should lean towards either vector search or keyword search, where an alpha of 1 is a pure vector search, and an alpha of 0 is a pure keyword search. It is 0.75 by default. 
```

> 

Reviewer: Can we add a code snippet here using the alpha param in Typescript?

Author: yess!

### Changing ranking algorithm 

Here is where it gets fun! Weaviate supports two fusion algorithms as of Weaviate v1.20 i.e. rankedFusion and relativeScoreFusion. 

> In a nutshell, rankedFusion (the original Hybrid search algorithm in Weaviate) assigns each object a score based on its position in the search results (in descending order), with the total score derived from the sum of these rank-based scores across both vector and keyword searches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a nutshell, rankedFusion (the original hybrid search algorithm in Weaviate) assigns each object a score based on its position in the search results (in descending order), with the total score derived from the sum of these rank-based scores across both vector and keyword searches.
```

![Ranked Fusion Algorithm](./img/reciprocal-rank.png)

> Relative Score Fusion on the other hand normalizes the output of the vector and keyword searches so that the highest value becomes 1 and the lowest 0 and everything in between is scaled to match. The total score is then the sum of the normalized individual search scores. Letting us maintain the relevance given by the original keyword/vector search algorithms, while still being able to compare the results and fuse them. As relativeScoreFusion is the newer algorithm, it would most likely be the better choice for most use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Relative Score Fusion on the other hand normalizes the output of the vector and keyword searches so that the highest value becomes 1 and the lowest 0 and everything in between is scaled to match. The total score is then the sum of the normalized individual search scores. This lets us maintain the relevance given by the original keyword/vector search algorithms, while still being able to compare the results and fuse them. As relativeScoreFusion is the newer algorithm, it might be the better choice for most use cases.
```

![Reciprocal Score Fusion Algorithm](./img/relative-score.png)

> Dirk and Joon-Pil on our team wrote an [in-depth blog post](https://weaviate.io/blog/hybrid-search-fusion-algorithms) on Hybrid Search in Weaviate. I would recommend looking at it for an in-depth look. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dirk and Joon-Pil on our team wrote an [in-depth blog post](https://weaviate.io/blog/hybrid-search-fusion-algorithms) on the different hybrid search fusion algorithms in Weaviate. If you're interested in a more detailed explanation, I would definitely recommend it.
```

> 

Reviewer: Can we also add a code snippet here on how to change the fusion algorithm?

Author: sure!

## When to use Hybrid Search

So with all that you know about Hybrid Search, when should you use it? 

> The way we see it, if you have a model fine-tuned for your data, pure vector search should be enough to give you accurate search results. If you’re mostly matching patterns that rely on keyword matching, keyword search should be good enough. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The way we see it, if you have a model fine-tuned for your data, pure vector search might be good enough to give you accurate search results. If you’re mostly matching patterns that rely purely on exact keyword matching, keyword search will probably be good enough. 
```

> If your use cases don't fall into any of the two scenarios mentioned, you might benefit from implementing hybrid search. It isn’t a silver bullet as you would have to optimize it for your data with the customization options we have available. It’s worth noting that because you’re running two searches in the background and computing your results from them, there is a performance cost associated with each search for high-throughput applications.

Reviewer: > It isn’t a silver bullet as you would have to optimize it for your data with the customization options we have available.

Not sure what you mean by this.

Author: I mean to say it's implementation takes some a customization to suit your use case

## Building an Application that leverages Hybrid Search

> To get some hands-on experience with the new client, let's create a simple web application that allows us to perform hybrid search on a collection of quotes. If you ever wanted to strengthen your point by quoting someone famous, this is the project for you!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get some hands-on experience with the new client, let's create a simple web application that allows us to perform hybrid search on a collection of quotes. If you have ever wanted to strengthen your point by quoting someone famous, this is the project for you!
```
